Patient details.
First name: Patricia .
Surname: Castellar Ramos.
NHC: 5468973.
NASS: 43 87963875 60.
Address: C/ Monforte de lemos, 129 .
Locality/ Province: Madrid.
POSTAL CODE: 28029.
Care data.
Date of birth: 21/02/1958.
Country of birth: Spain.
Age: 60 years old Sex: M.
Date of admission: 13/06/2018.
Doctor: Maria Vicente Sallais NºCol: 28 28 36982.
Patient's clinical report: 60-year-old female, non-smoker or alcohol drinker, with no clinical history of interest, who refers no relevant medical or surgical procedures and who comes to our department for an exodontia of the first lower left premolar. At the time of the intraoral clinical examination, an asymptomatic tumour lesion measuring 15 mm in diameter was observed on the left buccal mucosa. It is pale pink in colour similar to the mucosa and has a smooth surface. On the right buccal mucosa, a tumour lesion of 10 mm in diameter is observed. This lesion is hypochromic compared to the buccal mucosa and has a smooth surface. The provisional diagnosis for both lesions is a traumatic fibroma associated with a poorly adapted prosthesis. At the time of history taking the patient did not report having undergone facial infiltration treatment with biopolymers. The diagnostic method is an excisional biopsy and the treatment is surgical removal. The excision is performed by anaesthetising the area. The incision was made with a number 15 scalpel blade and sutured with 3-0 black silk. Closure of the right lesion was performed with Vicryl and then 3-0 black silk. At the time of surgical excision of the left lesion the macroscopic appearance is a lipoma due to its internal colouring and the fact that it is encapsulated.
For the left lesion the microscopic study indicates a reactive lesion lined by a flat stratified lining epithelium of variable thickness. Beneath the epithelium there is a lesion consisting of abundant randomly arranged collagenous fibres interspersed with fibroblasts and some blood vessels delineated by normal appearing endothelium. This confirms that it is a traumatic fibroma. Histopathological examination of the right mucosal lesion reveals the presence of abundant empty rounded spaces surrounded by numerous foamy looking histiocytes, indicating that they are phagocytosing lipids and have this appearance. After obtaining the microscopic examination images, the patient indicated that 10 years earlier she had undergone a treatment of facial infiltrations with biopolymers on the forehead and at the corners of the mouth. The patient did not report any symptoms associated with adverse effects.
Clinical Manager: Dr. Maria Vicente Sallais E-mails: marvisallais@gmail.com, m.allais@me.com
