First name: Ramon.
Surname: Piqueras Sanchez.
NHC: 4654365.
NASS: 23 45703245 20.
Address: Calle de las Peñas 23, 5A.
Town/ Province: Madrid.
POSTAL CODE: 28030.
Care data.
Date of birth: 12/05/1978.
Country: Spain.
Age: 40 years old Sex: M.
Date of admission: 06/06/2018.
Doctor: Alfredo Mogedas Vergara NºCol: 28 45 96985.
Reason for admission: a large left cervical tumour.
Current History: The patient explains slow and painless growth of the mass of approximately 10 years of evolution.
The limits of the tumour include the left greater body of the hyoid bone anteriorly, the mastoid region superiorly, the clavicle inferiorly and the external occipital protuberance posteriorly.
The consistency of the mass is soft and it is not attached to deep planes.
No lymph nodes or other masses were palpable and the intraoral examination was normal.
History:  The patient has a history of surgery for a gill cyst in the same location 18 years ago.
Physical examination: completely unremarkable.
Summary of complementary tests: It was decided to carry out a cervico-facial magnetic resonance (MRI) scan, which revealed a homogeneous, well-defined mass that did not invade neighbouring structures and with a fatty density.
A sample was taken by fine needle puncture aspiration (FNA) which confirmed the initial suspicions of lipoma.
It was decided to perform surgical excision of the tumour. An approach was made at the level of the posterior hairline, resecting a 5*10cm skin spindle to improve direct closure.
During the operation, a piece weighing 459.5g and measuring 25*16*4.8cm was obtained.
Evolution and comments: After the first postoperative day the patient showed a rapidly growing haematoma at the level of the posterior suture which had to be evacuated urgently and haemostasis of a small vessel at the level of the left trapezius muscle had to be performed.
After the seventh postoperative day the patient was discharged.
Pathological studies confirmed the diagnosis of lipoma without atypia.
He is currently progressing satisfactorily and is being monitored in our outpatient clinic.
Referred by: Alfredo Mogedas Vergara E-mail: alfmgvg@hotmail.com
